---
layout: default
modal-id: 5
img: personal/images/2jma/icon.png
alt: image-alt
category: Power BI, MS Excel
---

<style type="text/css">
.tg  {border-collapse:collapse;border-spacing:0;width:auto;height:auto;}
.tg td{border-color:black;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;font-size:12px;
  overflow:hidden;padding:10px 5px;word-break:normal;}
.tg th{border-color:black;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;font-size:12px;
  font-weight:normal;overflow:hidden;padding:10px 5px;word-break:normal;}
.tg .tg-cly1{text-align:left;vertical-align:middle}
.tg .tg-99ka{background-color:#D9E1F2;font-weight:bold;text-align:left;vertical-align:middle}
.responsive {width:auto;height:auto}
</style>

<div>
	<p>The project “Job Market Analysis” investigates market trends in demand for jobs in a specific domain. The project follows the Data Analytics pipeline; outlined as part of the learning from <em><a href="https://app.datacamp.com/learn">Datacamp</a></em>. The project uses an Excel Dataset with a single data table. The raw dataset consists of >25000 instances of job postings from the years 2017 to 2021. Each instance consists of 18 attributes and represents a unique ad for the job.</p>
   
	<p><b><u>Check > Explore > Analyze > Visualize > Dashboard > Insights.</u></b></p>

	<p> To proceed with this exploratory data analysis, we start by checking the dataset for accuracy, completeness, and integrity. What I mean by that is ensuring that a single row represents a complete data object, a complete instance of the job. We proceed with a routine data cleanup by removing any empty objects and erroneous objects, identifying suitable replacements for blank/null/missing values, ensuring suitable formats for each field, removing duplicates, and so on. This helps in maintaining consistency in our insights, allowing clear storytelling with this data. </p>
	
	<p>In the next steps, we will create a <b>STAR Schema</b> data model with the cleaned data and investigate trends/patterns of job demand in the market. This will be followed by an interpretation of these trends/patterns and their relevance to the organization. Finally, we will create a multi-page dashboard with Power BI to convey the data narrative. So, let’s dive in.</p>

 	<p><b>Check:</b></p>
	<ol type="i">
		<li>There is a total of 25115 rows, but the serial number of jobs starts from 0.  We remove 0 and start the numbering from 1.</li>
		<li>Doing so I found the row number and serial number are the same, which couldn’t be since the first row is a header. Do a difference check of sl. 1 to 25115(excel generated sequence) and the serial number column data. Four values of differences were found: 0,1,2,2.43. Verified and corrected the data.</li>
		<li>We check for blank data in the Excel dataset. “Home > Find & Select > Goto Special > check blanks > ok”. There are blank fields in the dataset. Make a note of columns with empty fields.</li>
		<li>Check data formats: date, text, and numeric values. It's in the appropriate formatting.</li>
		<li>Save and import the data set in the PowerBI desktop. GetData > Text/CSV > Select > OK. Choose Transform Data.</li>
		<li>Check valiid, error and empty % on top of each columns. Fixing these issues will conclude the data check. Select Close and Apply.</li>		
	</ol>

<iframe title="Project_5" width="600" height="486" src="https://app.powerbi.com/view?r=eyJrIjoiZmI1MzZiNTAtYWVmOC00NTM1LWFhNjQtNzQwNGUwMjkzZGQwIiwidCI6Ijg0N2I0NjNlLWZmOTgtNGMyYy05NzRhLWZjMDUwZDIxZjNiNSJ9&embedImagePlaceholder=true&pageName=ReportSection" frameborder="0" allowFullScreen="true"></iframe>

